Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I think…
That's pretty awesome. That's probably the most valuable thing, honestly, that… that it's producing right now, I think.
I think it's very… I think that part is really cool, Patrick.
I'm trying to figure out where we left off.
I remember saying you said something about 2158.
Last time.
minute 21, or something in the… in the transcript.
I'm gonna grab some water.
Statement 2, 1, 9, 2. Okay. All right, I'm going to pull up… I'm going to leave this right here, actually. I'm going to run to the bathroom. I'll be right back. Laura's here, and then we can do.
What did I miss?
Hi, Kathy.
Hi, Laura. Um…
Grandma was talking about a question that was prompted, an AI question that was prompted when he was inputting stuff about his family into the personal app, which
Oh.
I have not. I have not played around with.
And I asked him a good… a good prompt about pointing out there was these deaths.
in the family when he was 9, and he… yeah.
Um, and I texted you earlier, I… somehow I lapsed that we had the same link all the time, and I just wasn't seeing the…
Um… the prompt for the Zoom link, so I… I was questioning whether it was happening.
You texted me?
Mm-hmm.
Hmm… I didn't get it.
That 11.25 today?
Yeah, no.
Huh.
707-874-1227.
Right, that's the wrong number.
That's your old office number?
Uh, that's my home landline.
Oh…
Yeah.
I don't know.
How have you ever gotten my other texts, then? That's just the one that comes up, but… so the proper number, Laura, would be…
6950596?
Right.
Okay.
Hi, Laura.
Hi, Guillermo, how are you?
Good, good, how are you doing?
Oh, okay.
I'm at, uh, my daughter's house, um,
Babysitting and doing housework.
Oh…
So…
This is in Oregon or in Boston?
I'm in Oregon. It always means I'm up earlier than I usually am, so…
I know. I've had a full day.
We'll part of Oregon is she in?
Central Oregon, a town named called Madras.
north of Bend, south of Portland.
Oregon's a beautiful state.
Yeah, it really truly is. I'm looking at this big volcano right now, Mount Jefferson.
Ugh.
It's majestic.
Lots of…
So the results from last time the log said that.
We statement 102192 in Arthur was the next one.
And, uh… We can keep going.
I'm wondering at some point to if we should go to another case.
Kind of like we skipped away from Sarah. just because of a lot of the coding conventions became clearer.
I'm not sure yet, because what we've been talking about has been really generative, I thought.
Um, and the AI is capturing that which is useful.
So. I thought we would keep talking through this like we have been, and I kind of have in the book, in the back of my mind, I'm trying to figure out when to jump to another case.
maybe even the next one of the second generation of cases. I can't remember what the name was, just so that we're all using the same.
a lot more of the same conventions. We'll see.
So the statement. Yeah.
Yeah, I've been sort of waiting for the rules that are generated from this one before I start another one.
Hmm.
Well, I would just say if we start another one, let's all do the same one.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's required. It has to be, because otherwise we have nothing to review.
So definitely, you can move on to some of the other ones if you want to, but there's a chance that you know I'd ask you to recode it.
Um, just if we've got… you know, enough conventions here.
But. Yeah.
Yeah, you had sent us a list that was an order, I think it was Dominic was maybe the first name or something, but yeah, we'll just…
agree on what… who it's gonna be.
Right. Anyway, all right, let's just keep going here. It's about 10 min after. Okay, so here's here's one. Of course, I can't remember any of the context before this until I start reading. But 2184. I need to go to 2190.
Let me close my door.
I suppose it was just a matter of survival in a sense. My mother has always been sensitive to disruptions. There was too much noise or if things were out of place, you could feel the temperature in the room change.
Seems like we did it, but…
Did we? This is maybe the last one.
Yeah, I think…
Okay.
Well, let's maybe do it anyway, just to rewind one. When Claire was born, that shift became permanent.
She was a colicky baby, always crying, and my mother seemed constantly on the verge of fraying.
I remember distinctly realizing that if I was perfect, if I kept my room immaculate and stayed out of the way, I could somehow balance the scales.
I became very good at anticipating what was needed before anyone had to ask. It felt like my job to be the stable one, the one who didn't add the weight, add to the weight that she was already carrying. Even now, when I visit, I find myself tidying up the kitchen or organizing her mail. It's a habit I can't seem to break.
Yeah, we did talk about that one. And that's a kind of a synthetic statement. You know, it's too rich to be real.
But it's useful to talk about. It's easier to talk about these kinds of statements. So I think we discussed something about how there's, like, a… Basically, what he's saying is that there's a transient.
pattern, but then it became permanent with the with the structural change of the birth of his sister.
and uh… And then we have a lot. We have enough codes here that it's kind of hard to figure out where to start with it.
But…
That first statement is more of a baseline statement. My mother's always been sensitive.
That's right. That's right.
always been sensitive. Well, you know, I… I read that as trans… as he's talking about the way.
that it fluctuates transitively, but then it became baseline.
Oh, and he says, my mother has always been sensitive to disruptions.
After the structural change.
That's a second sentence.
The thing that we either came…
Right, I get that. I'm just saying that maybe that it's that the sensitivity was there. It sounds like always, but that it only became.
apparent during transient fluctuations. But then after the shift, it was always apparent, something like that.
Well, I guess I took what the…
You know what I mean?
the shift was, was that it was…
Uh, um…
Yeah, that there was a shift up, that sensitivity was constantly… was… became constant, is that what you're saying?
There's a… well, the way I'm looking at it is there's a difference between sensitivity, and that that sensitivity was being expressed.
Because everybody's… Because it sounds like before the shift that she was.
she always had a proclivity to to, like, appear sensitive.
But it wasn't always active. But then she was always in a sensitive, reactive state after the structural change.
Right. So I think… I think that would be, you know, just a shift up in intensity.
something like that.
that it would be…
Are we calling that a symptom?
whatever it is, it's up.
Because I think a lot of symptoms have that characteristic.
Where they're kind of episodic. There's a…
vulnerability, or tendency.
But then they tend to be…
you know, more frequent.
or more constant.
I mean, I wonder if this speaks to this conversations we've had about
entering a variable and or whether or not to re-enter it, and maybe
If, in this one, if the first was the…
was this, she's always been sensitive, that's an anxiety up.
And then it became permanent.
would be perhaps an occasion to enter anxiety up again, rather than anxiety same.
Yeah.
Which speaks to intensity up.
Because that's one way we've been saying, okay, we identified that that pattern, that variable is there, so don't…
don't, um…
opt to distinguish it in the coding every time, but in this case…
You could do it to say it went up from the baseline to more intense.
And that's what it… what that's what it means, if it gets repeatedly entered.
The question about not repeating was when you're talking about the same shift in time.
Mm-hmm.
Uh-uh.
And you know, it's just just because they mentioned the same shift in time 3 times doesn't mean you code it 3 times.
Yeah.
It means you put it once. So any shift in time gets one code is the is the rule.
That's the last time you need to say that, Timmy?
These God, and you know I still I've been too busy with work. I haven't been able to add in the summary.
to simplify because I look at this, all these codes that we have for each one of these statements, and it's just too hard to figure out where to start.
And I think that having that summary will help with that.
Well, I think the way we've been doing it is… I mean, I know it's useful to me. We look at one…
But…
entry and compare, and then discuss.
Yeah, the thing is, is that we have so many codes here, and it's kind of random what we talk about, and then we end up just short-circuiting and moving on.
Okay.
Uh-huh.
You know, so it's hard to tell if we have 3 people that that match, it's hard to see that and just acknowledge it. If we have divergence on, you know.
We do miss a lot of detail in each statement, just because we can't handle the complexity, I think. If you track what we're talking about, and then I short circuit and say, okay, we should probably move on.
Let's say we can… we agree, say, in that statement, there was a shift.
But… Anyway, let's, um, let's do that, though. Let's move on to the next one, because we're supposed to…
That's right. That's right.
Mm-hmm.
That's a good point.
This one's got less codes. Maybe we can jump onto this one.
This is what we're supposed to start on anyway.
So given that. AI asked a question. He was present physically, but he wasn't. Okay, we need to figure out what the question was, because he's using pronouns.
Second. When you were a child trying to balance the scales and keep things quiet for your mother. Where was your father, Robert, while all of this was happening?
Good question. He was present physically, but wasn't really there.
Robert usually stayed in the basement or out in the yard.
If things got too loud with Clara, he'd just find a reason to leave the room.
Understandable.
Looks like everybody put distance.
Yeah. You didn't put distance?
Oh, yeah.
Except for me. I put a focus, and this is where that bug… I don't know who person in seven is for me.
Maybe the… one of the… the…
The kid?
Let's see here. Let's do this.
2194.
Which statement is that? It's. 21942194.
Sylvia, you put Sylvia as the…
So I put projection on Claire.
Oh, uh, I put the mother doing the focusing and then Clara is the recipient, the target, whatever you call it.
Oh, because mom getting too loud with Claire.
Yeah, so the distance. I mean, I'm thinking about the prototypical.
child-focused triangle, which is female moves toward child and focuses male gets overwhelmed and distances.
And you guys capture the distance aspect of that.
But not the projection.
But then, you know, just coding projection, it's you kind of have to know that that's part of the projection thing.
Right.
It's like we're both kind of capturing half of it or something.
Would you say… it's like the, um… well, it's the reciprocity in it.
in it. That's implied.
So, I think, um…
It convention would be, though, that I think we've been talking about
is that…
You would have to have… for… to code it for this statement.
the only part that's stated in it is the distance.
The projection was maybe more contained in that previous statement.
Um, or not really.
Anyway, it's… I think the point, maybe this is what you were…
Saying Patrick is the…
knowing theory, you can kind of assume it. Knowing triangles, you can assume it.
But it's not spelled out in the data.
Yet.
Yeah, those are both important. questions that this process we need to line out in this process.
The first one is sort of simpler. It's it's that really we're talking about a pattern or a shift that kind of crosses statements. And the rule there.
that's already established is it doesn't matter so much which statement the code is in. It matters that it gets in there correctly.
Yeah.
So we've established that. But then you're also saying you're also pointing out. The second one is a little bit more substantial. It's the second point. It's… There are certain presuppositions or certain you could you call them assumptions that that theory provides you. And that you know when you're training.
But the question is. Do you get ahead of it a little… do you get ahead of the what's explicit in the data a little bit with that, or do you just leave it with what's… what's coded, what's said?
And that's an interesting question. Because I could go either way on it right now.
Hmm.
I don't really know.
I think that's what I did in my coding. I presumed that him going into the yard was, uh…
anxiety reaction to the noise and…
and functioning down by distancing, so… um…
And you've got anxiety up in there.
Mmm. Yeah. Oh, that's interesting.
It's the same thing, I was… I was interpreting that him leaving was anxiety up.
And him… him leaving was functioning down.
You know, I'm…
So it speaks to your point about how much do we…
That's right. I see that the same as the same dilemma.
Um…
because it could have been, because just think about the counterexample or the null hypothesis for that anxiety question. Maybe he has a hearing dysfunction where he hears static when the baby is crying, because it resonates off of the spoons in the drawer that happened to make it into his, you know what I mean?
Uh-huh.
It could be a structural thing in him. But I don't know, anyway.
Well, so how about this? And, um…
coding, anxiety up, and…
I, you know, I think I would…
tend not to do that. Let's see if I can express this, because in all the
anxiety binding mechanisms, you assume
Anxiety is present.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Someone is distancing or over-functioning.
Or there's conflict.
There's anxiety being managed.
But the, um…
Now, I don't know. I mean, if you want to say that each time
that the baby cries, and the dad gets out of there, that would be an instance of anxiety up. I guess that's accurate.
Um, but I guess I'm sort of used to thinking of using
Anxiety up.
When there is a, um…
kind of a singular event.
Rather than a pattern that's managed.
with the anxiety binding mechanism.
I see.
So, it's… anytime you pick one of the relationship variables,
In this case, distance.
The, um, anxiety up is inferred, so…
it's… it's… you don't need to… you don't need to know… code it.
Yeah.
How do you…
Well, that causes a little bit of a technical problem because… Otherwise you shouldn't.
I mean, they're separate variables, meaning they technically vary independently.
And so if they're the same. If there's always anxiety and distance, then you don't need an anxiety variable.
You know? So… You have to kind of figure out when you can have one without the other.
Uh-huh.
Which is why I'm…
And then if they correlate very strongly, then the theoretical hypothesis is just true.
But you have to have… there has to be falsifiable in that way.
And maybe my counterexample would be one of those, you know, then you're getting really nitty gritty about the definitions of distance, for example, like, oh, there's something to do with his hearing, or some physical problem that has nothing to do with threat response.
I don't know. But…
Yeah. Maybe the substantiation, if you ever do use the anxiety upwift distance, in this case, would be after the
After the, um…
the…
whoever it is, Marcus, Arthur, uh, mentions it for the fourth time. You know, my dad just gets so, you know, he always disappears when these things go on, or something like that.
Then you put it.
Where you have to code it by implication every time E is a relationship.
Patrick? Well…
As in every time.
Patrick, what was that definition of anxiety you gave?
During the presentation?
And with… for FFRN?
something plus something equals anxiety.
That's fine.
There's the conditions for anxiety. It helps me code and it's this is all coming from me in my opinion, but it's a sufficient combination of uncertainty and urgency.
It's basically what are the conditions for a threat response? Like, what is threat?
Would there be a diff…
It's the perception of those two. It's when you have to do something really fast, and you don't know how, and that's when you start flailing, because you're acting fast, and… you know.
Yeah, would that be different than… because I think one of the… the thing with bone theory is everything so… all the concepts are so mingled.
Um, would that be different than…
what I think you guys are saying is that
Anxiety is attached to all of these, but…
I wonder if there's a difference between, like, this underlying chronic anxiety that's part of
Yeah.
our relationship patterns versus what Patrick, if I hear you saying, is like this
kind of, uh, more acute, flailing, which is related to chronic anxiety, but maybe there's a very… a difference in that that might be useful for coding.
purposes.
you know. When you talk about threat response, it's neurological and endocrine, but it's… It is a different circuit.
Yeah.
It is a different thing that's happening, it's related to an older part of you evolutionarily, and it has all of these… it steers the complexity and trajectory of your thinking.
It steers your perceptual system and how… what information you attend to, and how sophisticated it is. There is an actual difference in threat response versus just going fast.
Yeah.
and just experimenting, which is the counterargument to uncertainty and urgency.
I think it makes a difference.
And this is one of these things where we're getting way into the weeds on one of these terms, but… But theoretic, this is technically what theory is for. I mean, theoretically speaking.
And as far as I've always thought about it, anxiety is a different response that uses different pathways in your physical structure.
And it it's hard to know in a vignette like this when those are being activated without like getting a lot of information and talking and watching, you know, all that stuff. That's the way I think about this. So I don't know how to code this.
But I do think that. Coding anxiety is different than.
Then just moving, you know, putting physical distance between you and somebody else.
Well, I guess I was assuming that
Which is all we have evidence for here.
We're not just coding physical distance.
Um…
that, you know, uh, you know,
that statement starts out saying, well, he was around.
you know, he's there, but he is…
putting some physical…
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
implying an emotional distance, I guess, with this, right? That's right. That's a good point.
And uh… and so you're going to be coding for that.
often say you get a statement like,
you know, he was there, but he wasn't there, without saying he went to the garage, or whatever.
And, uh, so you would be coding distance
for that.
At least in many instances.
I think of, you know…
So…
So, so I'm thinking about the relationship variables.
as… as Bowen defined them,
Um, as they're called, anxiety-managing or anxiety-binding mechanisms.
And because they're part of
you know, uh, chronic…
repetitive patterns. I think it does relate to the chronic level of anxiety. It's a baseline
phenomenon, again.
And, um…
So, I think in the long run, it's going to…
have more clarity.
to not…
have to code anxiety for each use of those mechanisms.
I agree with that.
Good.
But, you know, maybe this is… maybe… okay, maybe this is the first time
that, uh, we become aware of the Father's reaction to the babies crying.
So maybe it's appropriate in just getting that
defined.
Am I making any sense with that?
By putting… putting anxiety in that.
Yeah, by putting anxiety in at this point.
I'm used to… again, this is just repeating it, it's like someone dies in the chronic level of anxiety goes up.
Or there was a, um…
a storm, an unusual event, you know. There was lightning and thunder, and anxiety went up.
You know, or the child drove his…
bike over the cliff.
So, I'm laughing because it happened.
Anyway, your anxiety goes up.
Um, rather than…
Again, the chronic repetitive patterns.
um… that's… that's the assumption. I guess if you're… if you're going through and you're trying to…
Um, Patrick is maybe do a study of, you know, is…
It's true that these are anxiety-binding patterns, then you would
You would want to be somehow…
you know, coding anxiety separately.
Mm-hmm.
You'd have to because you're testing whether there's a relationship between two things and you've got to be able to track them independently.
But then what do you do again? It's the chronic anxiety, it's not quite the same as the same situation, but it's the same principle, really. It's the same phenomenon that's sort of built into the chronic functioning of the organism.
So process wise, I can see that this is one of those things that we can. We don't have to come up with a rule for this right now.
Mm-hmm.
We can leave it open and see how it evolves, um, and see if it comes up again, and attack it from different angles, and I bet a convention will come from it. But anyway, that… so we should probably move on just to keep the the number of statements up. But but one last question. So, Laura, are you… Are you… are you implying that the anxiety variable in your mind is more about baseline shifts than chronic… than acute shifts?
chronic shifts rather than… acute shifts.
Um, that the anxiety variable is about that.
Well, I think it's only informative.
Yeah.
When it's not a baseline
phenomenon.
you know, that it's not really a shift.
Yeah.
Right.
Unless it's a shift to a new baseline. Okay, so you're seeing it both ways, but…
Something like that.
Yeah.
Yeah, so there's nothing wrong with… always coding two variables together, because that just means that that the theory is correct.
Yeah, yeah.
you know what I mean? Or, you know, hypothetically, it's like, oh, if we're always coding, I mean, honestly, the reason that I get motivated to do all this is because I believe that practically all behavioral problems have a relationship component. So you're as you're implying that there is high.
a high relationship, a correlation, and you just wanted to show out in the data. So there's nothing inherently wrong with it.
Right. That's true.
It's just it's just important to to really constantly try to chisel away at the differences, because otherwise one of the major failings, in my opinion, watching people coming out of training is assuming that all these variables are always related all the time.
And that's wrong, because they have to be falsifiable, otherwise it's not a scientifically testable thing.
Yeah,
But they can be highly related, and that's different. That means that 0.1% of the time, they were not related.
You know, and that has to always be a possibility, so…
Well, that would be, like, you know, physical distance is not necessarily a threat reaction, right?
Yeah, it's like I had to go to work, so what are you saying I'm emotionally distant?
Right. Exactly, yeah.
you know.
But I just want to highlight the point you just made that I was thinking, like, so when do we start making rules? And from what you said, it's like you're
view of it would be that it will emerge somehow out of this conversation, and…
Mm-hmm.
So, um, you know, I think that…
That's a good idea.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Yeah, and we have actual mechanisms in place for that. I've got enough experience with the Opus model that we're using to do all of this from anthropic to know that it's probably not going to be missing many details. It's probably going to do a pretty good job.
of tracking all of these rules. And what we're talking about right now will end up as a line item in the next results paper.
And so it's doing a pretty good job of capturing what we're talking about and the status of that. So that it'll get recorded in that way. But also, I think that that's explicitly, I think, more implicitly, we're probably going to run into this particular point.
Yeah.
Right.
More times, with more examples. And then it will emerge. It will probably be captured and will probably even be able to look at all those examples in a couple of months and say, ah, what's the pattern? But we'll probably also develop an implicit.
way of thinking about it just by going through it more.
So… Okay.
All right, next statement. Whoops, I clicked it. Didn't mean to click it.
Is it going to load back to the… 2 9 4. Okay, this one's probably going to be a little too rich again.
Sylvia and I have always, oh, what's the question? We always need to have the question. What was your relationship with your mother like as a child, and how has it changed since she retired?
Sylvia and I have always been consistent. When I was younger, I was the one she could count on not to cause a scene.
I think she appreciated that, or at least I hope she did.
We have a routine now where I call her every day. Well, usually on my commute home from the office.
Since she retired from the library, she seems to have more time to worry about things that don't necessarily require it.
Yeah.
She asks about Elena, she asks about my… that's his wife, I think. She asks about my stress levels, but it feels like she's reading from a script. Sometimes it's strange. She spent my entire childhood needing me to be the quiet, self-sufficient one.
And now that I am, she seems unsettled by it. She's much more animated when she's talking about Clare's kids and their various school projects.
I packed a lot into these statements. So this is in relation to after she retired because he's tense kind of about that.
Yeah.
She asks about Alina, she asked me about my stress levels, but it feels like she's reading from a script.
It's strange. She spent my entire child needing me to be quiet, and now now that I am, she seems unsettled by it. So she's wanting more out of him.
But she's more animated about that's pretty. There's a lot there. It's kind of hard to follow. There's so much there. I didn't code anything. I didn't hear anything new in there, I guess.
You wouldn't add retirement.
That's good.
I would now. That's a good point. Yeah, I think that's a mistake, leaving that out.
Laura, you put outside. So you're you're basically implying that we learned a little bit about a triangle configuration.
Where… and let's pull up yours… Here.
because we don't have the names.
Arthur, so the client here is on the inside with his kids.
And mother is on the. Oh, wait. Inside one inside 2. He's on the outside.
You're saying it's in the higher anxiety configuration, where he's putting them together.
And him on the outside.
Um, yes. I don't know if it's him putting them together, that's…
his view of how it's operating, I guess.
I guess it, yeah, so…
Okay.
And I didn't put retirement either.
Yeah, no one did.
So how do you see that as him on the outside?
Uh, choose more animated talking about them.
I mean, I think it was that last statement, you know? Because on the one hand,
You know, she's… he's describing
His mother becoming more focused on him.
Um, which is…
Actually, I would tend to think of more as an inside position.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, except that…
Um, the whole thing kind of switched at the end, relatively speaking.
He sang.
You know, it's… what's that statement? It's like she's reading a script, but when she talks about them, she's lively.
Uh-huh.
So are you saying she's… he moved from a historically inside position with his mother, and now it's shifted?
In the current day to an outside position. By the beginning part, how he would… she appreciated that he would…
She could count on him to not…
make waves and all that.
Yeah, I mean, it's actually, you know, I'm finding myself a little confused, because…
Um…
You know, was he in the inside position?
Or the over-functioning.
Just…
He's in an over-functioning position.
You know, where… so… so they're together, yeah. They would be in the inside position. They would be together. She would have recruited him.
to, um, operate, to kind of help her…
manage the thing with the, uh…
dot with the… with the ones who… with Claire, who is more of a…
disturbance.
But now…
It's kind of… dull and…
the grandkids are more interesting than he is, or something.
and it's her grandkids. It's it's it's Claire's kids.
Claire's kids, yeah.
Right.
What did I do?
Can you restate that? I was having trouble following, and I was also trying to research something while you. So what what's the conclusion there? Or what's the perspective?
Um, I… I was just saying, I kind of got confused for a minute as to whether he had been in the inside position, as Kathy
pointed out…
And, uh, I do think he was the inside position, because…
His mother had recruited him into an inside position to help her manage with
the sister, who was…
you know, more likely to disturb her.
He's not going to do that. He's not going to disturb her.
He's gonna help his mother.
By being good.
And, um…
But… but the grandkids…
kind of dethroned him, it sounds like.
Probably much to his benefit, if he could appreciate it.
But, uh…
dethroned him from. So it sounds like he's still she's his mother is still talking to him as if he's in the inside position.
Yeah.
as as her helper. or something with the grandkid like the grandkids are getting him animated, getting her animated, but that Arthur is really on the inside with her on that, or she's speaking to him that way.
Maybe the difference is he's not quite happy there in the way he had been.
When it was just Claire.
He's… she's just like she's talking from a script.
Hmm.
So that just suggests some deception.
Yeah, yeah.
Because the script part is new, right? That's part of the shift.
making a real distinction, which seems like a positive-negative distinction.
With me, it's like a script.
With them, I had as she put it? More animated.
I tell you what, in this process, I think one of the most valuable things that's going to come out of it is… all of us figuring out some way to judge how much detail you need to think into, and how much you just let go.
because you can go down a rabbit hole with any one of these.
Oh, yeah.
You know, I've already found that just keeping myself just out of it is and.
just getting a real kind of like a summary.
is the right level, it seems like, but I still have trouble, like, this statement has got so much in it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I feel comfortable with my summary of this.
I don't feel like bottomless. I feel like that's how I see it.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
of this statement. And so how does that compare, though, to the kind of the story arc, the highest level one across all the statements, you know, like what?
This is… there's a lot of detail in here, but at the same time you can kind of.
Do you think you can let some of it go?
Well, I would say it's just a hint into the nodal event of grandchildren.
So, in that way, it's very backed-off, sort of reflects…
You know, the, uh… you know, a shift that comes when you add
people into the system.
Yeah.
So you're saying, Lauren, I think it's… this is just gonna get more…
illuminating the more we discuss these, because you're kind of…
route… you're kind of going into this doing your…
your theoretical assessment of that long statement, and then
coming up with kind of the endpoint of that assessment, which is there was a shift
From inside to outside.
And, um…
And then, you know…
that's…
that, uh, you doing it instead of doing all the entries.
And…
teaching the coding to do that.
I guess. That's… I think that… I think that's more…
how I've been thinking about it.
Um…
That's… that's… if that makes… makes sense, um…
Yeah, I'm not really thinking about teaching the coding.
other than…
Coding, this is how I did… I would do it.
That's the rule you have to follow if you're going to teach it. Well, you just need to do it the way you do it.
Yeah.
But… but each, you know, I got a separate…
statement. And again, so this might be…
a, uh, you know, part of a…
Um, a new chronic pattern,
That…
emerges at certain times, but that old pattern is going to be there, too, where Arthur helps his mother with Claire.
And… and so, you know, this may be an oscillation towards him on the outside, but…
more on the outside.
But it's still, as we have more evidence, we may conclude, overall, he's really more on… still on the inside.
Um…
I guess I'm thinking if maybe a simplest way to say it is just, this is it.
reiteration of him and his mom finding comfort together.
with others on the outside of that.
That would be an inside position.
Yeah, yeah.
So you would see this as… this…
as affirming his inside position.
Yeah.
I think I put his wife on the outside of it.
Oh, oh, yeah.
You did. It's here.
If he's calling his mom every day, I'm wondering about his wife.
Well, it's probably right.
But I'm not sure that I would say that the evidence is in the…
text yet.
That was… that was more of a prediction.
Yeah.
But I'm with you, I think that's… this is just him…
On the inside again.
And I'm once again kind of coding all the different statements.
Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, yeah.
So, but the upshot was, um…
Yeah.
What did I say? Projection at the end of that? What is it, when I go down? I've called it, um…
projection, uh, that I was quiet, and so now she's…
unsettled by it, huh?
I was… I was looking at the, the, um…
projection process, yeah. I don't… I don't remember what I was doing there.
What's the one above that, Patrick?
It may not are included in her worry focuses.
So that was the retirement was in that one.
Yeah.
Kathy, would it? What do you think about going through and.
Recoding. It's fun.
It might help, or at least from. 2 1 9 8 on, which is 2 thirds of the way through.
So, like, on that one,
If we jump, it doesn't matter.
So, you know, I would say that was sort of more an indication of
Arthur moving into more of an outside position with his mother, Guillermo, saying, overall, he's in the inside position, and maybe you were saying that too, Patrick.
And, um…
So, just… just to note that that's one where we…
kind of diverge on this, maybe on the specific…
statements, um…
As to what we emphasize.
Or something.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Hmm. And I'm not really very sure.
what I think about it. I got kind of lost with it.
Yeah.
But… But yeah, I mean, yeah.
You know, I'm thinking…
that I… I think there is kind of a summary, more summary statement.
that's gonna be important, rather than doing each statement. But really, it is what emotional process is like, is that it does move around a lot.
And what's baseline is the stabilization of a pattern.
But in that dynamic process,
you know, one second is inside, and the next second is outside, and it's sort of more a matter of where does it land.
you know, repeatedly, so that, you know, as Kathy's going through and doing each sentence, it does
kind of reflect
the moving nature.
of emotional process.
So…
We're proceeding by…
assessing each unit of talk.
You know, each turn of talk.
And, um, I think it's a good way to go.
And then, I don't know, maybe can AI then help us
At the end, say, well, what…
Does the frequency of…
Um…
coding this or that, end up being overall across the whole transcript.
And comparing
that.
Uh-huh.
You know. I think coding every point is going to.
To me, that seems like it will get overwhelming.
you know, because you just have this stream of rich data that you can't actually go in and introspect after that.
Yeah.
You have to have automated inference after that to make sense of it, because there's just too much.
And and the Sirf editor is architected for the summary view.
Um, at the end of it. And I don't have time to, you know, re-architect it. But at the end of it, what matters is that.
at the end of the discussion, the cumulative result.
Is correct or is or close. That's really what matters.
Yeah.
Right.
So it's the last statement. It's the cumulative column in the last statement.
and comparing. It's this thing.
Oh, yeah.
Comparing those… is what matters. The problem is, the only reason why we're not just doing that is because it's hard.
Mm-hmm.
You lose the detail of how… of the rationale behind a lot of the codes, unless you look at the statements. So there's a chicken and the egg problem in the way that we run this process.
Where all that matters is the cumulative result, but you kind of can't discuss the cumulative result unless you have a way to go through and trace the codes back to the statements.
Mm-hmm.
And I don't even know how to visualize a way to do that. And so we've been sticking with the statements so far and doing the summary view on each statement. That's what we're coding, because it gives you a systematic way to do it.
you know, each one of us can just go through and code in a straightforward process that statement by statement.
And it gives us a way to review it, even though it is a little too detailed.
And we get stuck in these rabbit holes, and all that matters is the endgame, but I haven't figured out a better way to organize that.
So, I mean, should we, like,
maybe use this case as a, maybe, first attempt to then go to the cumulative statement.
You know, after we've gone through this specific statements,
Yeah. Because we have to shift to that somehow, because that's really what matters.
So I've built out a few tools, you know, that I think are kind of mediocre at it.
um, that are meant to compare timelines side by side.
Yeah.
And I didn't quite like the way that they worked, but they are that was my attempt at making it so that we had a way to compare the end result because you can't compare four timelines side by side. It's just too much information.
Too hard.
It's too. It's like when we've, you know. How do you compare these? There's too many boxes.
Yeah.
Right.
right? So there's always these kind of underlying considerations about how to keep this process efficient. So you don't have. You're not inundating yourself with information, and.
Right now, the compromise that I've made. is that we have this whole system built out that I don't have time to change that goes statement by statement. It gives us a systematic process, but we also have to kind of… we do have to make that jump.
And like you say, Laura, we probably need to do that for this conversation and compare the end result.
Because it is the end result that matters. In the personal app, there's one button.
That takes the entire chat thread and cranks out a timeline, and that's the only way users are gonna use it. And they're just going to accept it. They're not going to go through and tweak things, and… you know. So.
Anyway, we should probably end there because it's top of the hour.
But can I say one more thing on…
Oh, yeah, I gotta run to class.
Oh, sorry, Kathy, go.
Yeah.
What I have decided or learned from this, based on that last entry that we were discussing at length, was the first
The last two statements were the shift. All the previous ones were the established
pattern that he had shifted from. So, what I learned from this is I don't need to recode that
pattern that was established, just the shift.
Of those last two statements of what is
what is pressient about this…
um… this transcript.
Right here.
Yeah, I think the concept of keeping shift as a very clear focal point is
Uh-huh.
That makes sense, makes sense to me.
So, kind of, the baseline pattern, and then the shifts.
Yeah.
Yeah, I gotta run too, guys. Great to see you.
Okay, I've gotta run. Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah, are we continuing with this, or…?
Okay, all right.
Yeah. Yep. Same one. And Kathy, if you can maybe go back through that one.
prune it, yep, I will.
and we'll, I mean, we'll jump to a new case, but I we're almost we're two thirds of the way through this one. So so we should do that holistic summary, I think.
Okay.
at the end, and then figure out what what case to do next.
Very good.
Very good. Bye.
Okay? Alright. You guys.